[Docs] Weight prompting using compel (#2574)
huggingface/diffusers: docs/source/en/using-diffusers/weighted_prompts.mdx

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Weighting prompts

Text-guided diffusion models generate images based on a given text prompt. Often, the text prompt
can include multiple concepts that the model should generate and it's often desireable to weight
certain parts of the prompt more or less. 

> Diffusion models function by conditioning the cross attention layers of the diffusion model with contextualized text embeddings via the cross attention layers (see the [Stable Diffusion Guide for more information](./stable-diffusion)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Diffusion models work by conditioning the cross attention layers of the diffusion model with contextualized text embeddings (see the [Stable Diffusion Guide for more information](../stable-diffusion)).
```

I think the path is wrong

> Thus a simple way to emphasize (or de-emphasize) certain parts of the prompt is by increasing or reducing the scale of the text embedding vector that correspond to the part of the prompt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus a simple way to emphasize (or de-emphasize) certain parts of the prompt is by increasing or reducing the scale of the text embedding vector that corresponds to the relevant part of the prompt.
```

> Thus a simply way to emphasize (or de-emphasize) certain parts of the prompt is by increasing or reducing the scale of the text embedding vector that correspond to the part of the prompt).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thus a simple way to emphasize (or de-emphasize) certain parts of the prompt is by increasing or reducing the scale of the text embedding vector that correspond to the part of the prompt).
```

This is called "prompt-weighting" and has been a highly demanded feature by the community (see issue [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues/2431)).

## How to do prompt-weighting in Diffusers

> Generally speaking, prompt weighting is not a core feature of diffusers since the philosophy of diffusers 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Generally speaking, we do not consider prompt weighting as a core feature of diffusers since the philosophy of diffusers 
```

> Generally speaking, we do not consider prompt weighting as a core feature of diffusers since the philosophy of diffusers 
> is to be a toolbox that enables other libraries, such as [InvokeAI](https://github.com/invoke-ai/InvokeAI) or [diffuzers](https://github.com/abhishekkrthakur/diffuzers) to build powerful UIs. Therefore, `diffusers` 
> simply exposes a [`prompt_embeds`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/v0.14.0/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/text2img#diffusers.StableDiffusionPipeline.__call__.prompt_embeds) function argument to many pipelines such as [`StableDiffusionPipeline`] allowing to directly pass the "prompt-weighted"/scaled text embeddings to the pipeline.

Reviewer: I would avoid speaking in slightly. negative terms. Maybe just rephrase a little bit:

```suggestion
We believe the role of `diffusers` is to be a toolbox that provides essential features that enable other projects, such as [InvokeAI](https://github.com/invoke-ai/InvokeAI) or [diffuzers](https://github.com/abhishekkrthakur/diffuzers), to build powerful UIs. In order to support arbitrary methods to manipulate prompts, `diffusers` exposes a [`prompt_embeds`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/v0.14.0/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/text2img#diffusers.StableDiffusionPipeline.__call__.prompt_embeds) function argument to many pipelines such as [`StableDiffusionPipeline`], allowing to directly pass the "prompt-weighted"/scaled text embeddings to the pipeline.
```

> As it's not super simply to process text embeddings to example or de-emphasize certain parts of the library,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As it's not super simple to process text embeddings to example or de-emphasize certain parts of the library,
```

Reviewer 2: Also, do you mean "prompt" instead of "library"?

> As it's not super simple to process text embeddings to example or de-emphasize certain parts of the prompt,
> we strongly recommend to rely on the [compel library](https://github.com/damian0815/compel) to handle the prompt-weighting for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [compel library](https://github.com/damian0815/compel) provides an easy way to emphasize or de-emphasize portions of the prompt for you. We strongly recommend it instead of preparing the embeddings yourself.
```

> Let's look at a simply examle. Image you want to generate an image of `"a red cat playing with a ball"` as 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's look at a simply example. Imagine you want to generate an image of `"a red cat playing with a ball"` as 
```

> Let's look at a simply example. Imagine you want to generate an image of `"a red cat playing with a ball"` as 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's look at a simple example. Imagine you want to generate an image of `"a red cat playing with a ball"` as 
```

follows:

```py
from diffusers import StableDiffusionPipeline, UniPCMultistepScheduler

pipe = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4")
pipe.scheduler = UniPCMultistepScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)

prompt = "a red cat playing with a ball"

generator = torch.Generator(device="cpu").manual_seed(33)

image = pipe(prompt, generator=generator, num_inference_steps=20).images[0]
image
```

This gives you:

![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main/compel/forest_0.png)

> As one can see, there is no "ball" in the image. Let's emphasize this part!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, there is no "ball" in the image. Let's emphasize this part!
```

For this we should install the `compel` library:

```
pip install compel
```

and then create a `Compel` object:

```py
from compel import Compel

compel_proc = Compel(tokenizer=pipe.tokenizer, text_encoder=pipe.text_encoder)
```

Now we emphasize the part "ball" with the `"++"` syntax:

```py
prompt = "a red cat playing with a ball++"
```

and instead of passing this to the pipeline directly, we have to process it using `compel_proc`:

```py
prompt_embeds = compel_proc(prompt)
```

Now we can pass `prompt_embeds` directly to the pipeline:

```py
generator = torch.Generator(device="cpu").manual_seed(33)

images = pipe(prompt_embeds=prompt_embeds, generator=generator, num_inference_steps=20).images[0]
image
```

We now get the following image which has a "ball"!

![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main/compel/forest_1.png)

> Similarly, one de-emphasizes parts of the sentence by using the `--` suffix for words, feel free to give it 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similarly, we de-emphasize parts of the sentence by using the `--` suffix for words, feel free to give it 
```
Using we in the rest of the example, should be consistent
